Add Strapi v4 plugin guide (#2732)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/cookbooks/strapi_v4.mdx

---
title: Strapi v4 guide
description: Learn how to use Meilisearch with Strapi v4.
---

# Strapi v4 guide

This tutorial will show you how to integrate Meilisearch with [Strapi](https://strapi.io/) to create a search-based web app. We are going to use Strapi’s quick start guide to create a restaurant collection, and then use Meilisearch to search through our collection data.

## Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure you have the following installed on your machine:

> - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/): active LTS or maintenance LTS versions, currently Node.js >=18.0.0 <=20.x.x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/): active LTS or maintenance LTS versions, currently Node.js >=18.0.0 \<=20.x.x
```

- npm >=6.0.0 (installed with Node.js) 
- A running instance of Meilisearch (v >= 1.x). If you need help with this part, you can consult the [Installation section](/learn/getting_started/installation). 

## Create a back-end using Strapi

> Create a directory called `my-app` where you will add our back and front-end parts of the application. Generate a back-end API using Strapi inside `my-app`:

Reviewer: I suggest creating a couple of h3 headings in this section to make it a bit easier to navigate.

> Create a directory called `my-app` where you will add our back and front-end parts of the application. Generate a back-end API using Strapi inside `my-app`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a directory called `my-app` where you will add the back and front-end parts of the application. Generate a back-end API using Strapi inside `my-app`:
```

Add the following three restaurants, one by one. For each restaurant, you need to press `Save` and then `Publish`.

- Name: `The Butter Biscotte` 
- Description: `All about butter, nothing about health.`

Next, add the `French food` category on the bottom right corner of the page.

[Strapi dashboard: create an entry form, arrow indicating the location of the categorie's location in the right side menu](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/meilisearch/documentation/main/assets/images/strapi-v4/strapi-add-category.png)

- Name: `The Slimy Snail` 
- Description: `Gastronomy is made of garlic and butter.` 
- Category: `French food`

- Name: `The Smell of Blue` 
- Description: `Blue Cheese is not expired, it is how you eat it. With a bit of butter and a lot of happiness.` 
- Category: `French food`

Your Strapi back-end is now up and running. Strapi automatically creates a REST API for your Restaurants collection. Check Strapi's documentation for all available [API endpoints](https://strapi.io/documentation/developer-docs/latest/developer-resources/content-api/content-api.html#api-endpoints).

> Now, it’s time to connect Strapi and Meilisearch and start searching through our data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, it’s time to connect Strapi and Meilisearch and start searching.
```

## Connect Strapi and Meilisearch

> In order to add the Meilisearch plugin to Strapi, you need to quit our Strapi app. Go to the terminal window running Strapi and push `Ctrl+C` to kill the process.

Reviewer: Most of the times, "in order to" can be replaced with "to" without any change to meaning.

```suggestion
To add the Meilisearch plugin to Strapi, you need to first quit the Strapi app. Go to the terminal window running Strapi and push `Ctrl+C` to kill the process.
```

Next, install the plugin in the `back` directory.

```bash
npm install strapi-plugin-meilisearch
```

After the installation, you have to rebuild the Strapi app before starting it again in development mode, since it makes configuration easier.

```bash
npm run build
npm run develop
```

> At this point, your Strapi app should be running once again on the default address: http://localhost:1337/admin/. Open it in your browser, you should see an admin log-in page; enter the credentials you used to create your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, your Strapi app should be running once again on the default address: http://localhost:1337/admin/. Open it in your browser. You should see an admin log-in page. Enter the credentials you used to create your account.
```

Once connected, you should see the new `meilisearch` plugin on the left side of the screen.

[Strapi dashboard with plugins side menu: arrow pointing at the 'meilisearch' option](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/meilisearch/documentation/main/assets/images/strapi-v4/strapi-meilisearch-plugin.png)

> Add your Meilisearch credentialson the Settings tab of the `meilisearch` plugin page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add your Meilisearch credentials on the Settings tab of the `meilisearch` plugin page. 
```

[GIF showing the mouse clicking on 'restaurant' in the Meilisearch collections tab](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/meilisearch/documentation/main/assets/images/strapi-v4/add-collection-to-meilisearch.gif)

The word “Hooked” appears when you click on the `restaurant`'s checkbox in the `Collections` tab. This means that each time you add, update or delete an entry in your restaurant content-types, Meilisearch is automatically updated.

Once the indexing finishes, your restaurants are in Meilisearch. Access the [search preview](/learn/getting_started/search_preview) confirm everything is working correctly by searching for “butter”.

[GIF showing the word 'butter' being typed in the search bar and search results appearing instantly](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/meilisearch/documentation/main/assets/images/strapi-v4/strapi-search-preview.gif)

Your Strapi entries are sent to Meilisearch as is. You can modify the data before sending it to Meilisearch, for instance by removing a field. Check out all the customization options on the [strapi-plugin-meilisearch page](https://github.com/meilisearch/strapi-plugin-meilisearch/#-customization).

## What's next

> This tutorial taught you how to add your Strapi collections to Meilisearch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial showed you how to add your Strapi collections to Meilisearch. 
```
